we start in Gaza where the World Health
Organization says the strip's largest
hospital has come under bombardment
Palestinian officials claim Israeli air
strikes have hit a number of medical
facilities including the main alifa
hospital Hamas authorities reporting a
number of deaths following the alleged
attack the hospital is believed to be
Sheltering thousands of people wounded
and displaced by
War Israel has said its forces are
active near the hospital and alleged
said hamus command posts are located
under the hospital
buildings our forces in gasa have
reached the heart of GSA city they're at
the outskirts of shatti they're near
alifa hospital and very near to the gasa
Port those terrorists who are staying in
the basement's underneath alifa hospital
tonight can hear the Thundering sound of
chank chants the bulldozers that pound
the ground they can hear it
Underground
the Israeli defense minister there
thousands of Palestinians are fleeing to
the south of the Gaza Strip meantime
streams of people are traveling on foot
as Israel intensifies its ground and air
campaign Israel has agreed to daily four
hour pauses in its military operations
in parts of Northern Gaza to allow
civilians to flee through a humanitarian
Corridor it's considering the creation
of a second
passage let's get some analysis now uh
joining me is military analyst Frank
ledwidge he's a senior lecturer in
strategic studies at Portsmouth
University and a former UK Military
Intelligence officer Frank Israel
continues to reject calls for a broader
ceasefire saying that would be a
surrender to Hamas but it seems it has
agreed to pauses in the fighting at
least in the north is there a risk for
Israel here of Hamas exploiting those
pauses to their own
advantage well good morning Terry yes
certainly Hamas would that's wrong the
Israelis would would claim so but I
don't see it as a particularly
significant tactical risk of course
there are advantages presentation and
one of the issues that Israel faces and
the US chairman of the gief Joint Chiefs
of Staff said yesterday Israel could be
a little bit more skillful on its
presentation I think that's true and it
might help him in that way tactically
there's no great risk but I think what's
Happening Here of course in The Wider
context as hinted darl
said directly by Tanya is that is the
hostage issue and the this joshing about
ceasefires or pauses or whatever
terminology is used is is part of a much
wider discussion going on in Qatar in
Cairo and indeed to some extent in terms
of policy in DC as well as Tel Aviv and
within within Israel there's a there are
two major parties and one party is in
these negotiations is led by mad which
tends in these matters to be PR deeply
pragmatic and uh let's say less hawkish
and then there's Netanyahu and the issue
for the negotiators Apparently is that
Netanyahu contines to increase demands
uh with respect to hostage releases but
of course the first issue is to find out
how many hostages are really there and
who they are and that's at the top of
Israel's demands so it's a very
confusing situation around ceasefires
hostages and
paes the US chairman of The Joint Chiefs
of Staff has called Israel's aim of
destroying Hamas completely a pretty
large order do do you think eliminating
Hamas is a realistic goal
Frank well the goal of prime minister
Netanyahu and his staff has slightly
shifted since the start of the war from
annihilating rooting out and utterly
destroying Hamas to eliminating the
military
capability in I suppose in strict terms
that's doable but the problem is and
this is what general Brown in in
Washington is is stressing is you it's
very difficult to eliminate an idea this
would be my gloss not
his but whilst uh killing perhaps uh
civilians in ways that are not properly
explained or or perhaps even Justified
now that's a that's a moot question but
there is this information war that lies
much of this and right now as Tanya
hinted uh the information being given
out the strategy as it were is is very
uh sketchy now I think In fairness we
are actually at a very early stage of
this war and one shouldn't demand a full
list of objectives and uh predictions
now uh but we should be starting to
shape them up and that doesn't seem to
be
happening there's been a lot of talk
Frank from the very beginning about the
risk of this conflict spilling over into
the broader region uh we heard from the
Iranian foreign minister recently
warning of an expansion in the scope of
the war saying that would was inevitable
uh meanwhile we've got the Pentagon
saying that the US and Coalition forces
have been attacked at least 46 times
since October 17th including in Iraq and
Syria by Iran's proxies it would seem is
is it too late Frank to contain this
conflict
oh certainly we're on an escalatory path
however there are moderating factors in
this last Saturday the Hezbollah leader
in Lebanon Hassan Nas nasala gave a long
and detailed speech the message of which
was we're not going to get involved yet
we weren't involved in in the Hamas
attack in any way nor was Iran so that
was a moderating speech as it were which
certainly slowed things down but the
attack on herbel uh Airbase or Airbase
near Orel in Northern Iraq yesterday the
uh dispatch last last couple of days of
popular militias into Syria to
supposedly join the fight and last night
we had reports you know in a different
uh in a different u a domain of what
what is in fact a Cyber attack probably
by Israel on Yemen all indicate that we
are on this escalatory path and I think
the Iranian foreign minister in his
leaked words were was was trying to
message that and and right now there's
no countervailing force and us too are
involved now of course militarily in
strikes on on Syria and a few weeks ago
anyway
Iraq it's most certainly a dangerous
situation yeah Frank there thank you
very much for your analysis that was
military analyst Frank ledwich joining
us from Oxford in the
UK well we asked our Jerusalem
correspondent Tanya ker what the
Israelis are saying about possibly
introducing daily pauses in their
offensive in
Gaza well there seems to be or appears
to be a difference in messaging here the
isra Israel has not really confirmed it
they are saying this is merely what they
already had in place an army spokesman
um spokesperson briefed reporters on
Thursday evening and said very clearly
this is not a ceasefire of several hours
but rather um that they will be
implementing those 4-Hour Windows they
see it as a tactical pause as local
pauses for humanitarian aid but also for
um people for residents in the north of
Gaza to move uh again south uh towards
the South and also that they already
have this in place in the past days that
they open these corridors where people
are able uh to move South Israel has
refused you know to go for a longer
ceasefire or a one or two day ceasefire
that has been pushed for by the US
administration because they say they
don't want to give Hamas the possibility
and other milit groups there uh to
regroup so this would be as far as we
understand implemented implemented in
different areas without uh so with a
very short notice for people to be able
to move or to to go out and of course we
need to see if this is actually
happening uh today and of course
fighting uh is continuing uh in Gaza
City from what we are hearing there from
on the
ground and China low is a spokesperson
for the Norwegian Refuge G Council we
asked her whether the introduction of a
daily 4-Hour pause and fighting would
provide relief to the people of
Gaza nothing can be done in a 4-Hour
pause first of all these pauses are
unilaterally declared in order for there
to be assurances of Civilian safety we
need all parties to this conflict to be
committing to these 4our pauses but
secondly in terms of of the four hours
it's not really enough for humanitarians
to go and provide assistance many of the
people stuck in Northern Gaza are
struggling to flee because they have
mobility issues people in their families
with disabilities there's no food or
water in Northern Gaza so people are
expected to make this long Trek on foot
and it's just it's it's not safe they
when they arrive in the South they won't
be assured of their safety either this
is um forcing people out of their homes
with no assurances that they'll be able
to return When hostil ities are over
amounting to forcible transfer which is
a grave breach of international
humanitarian law and we can talk now to
Peter Lerner from the Israeli Defense
Forces joining us from Tel Aviv great to
have you on the show again uh first of
all clarify the situation for us are we
getting these humanitarian pauses and in
what
form absolutely the the idea of
humanitarian pauses is to enable people
to to evacuate safely from the north of
Gaza we've been speaking quite
frequently about how Hamas has been
preventing it and by the amount of
people that are actually leaving over
the last three days uh and specifically
yesterday some 880,000 people evacuated
from north to south it goes to show that
Hamas was preventing people that wanted
to take care of their own lives um
indeed so it is enabling people to
evacuate safely but also um if those
that want to stay they can restock if
there's a humanitarian pause I it is
important to identify that the
humanitarian poses are in specific
locations it's not widespread it's not
all of the northern Gaza you know Hamas
is deeply embedded and the combat is
still ongoing from door too face to face
in urban combat so while we are
conducting humanitarian pauses and
specific Rel locations to enable
evacuation of those that want to go we
are continuing to to pursue Hamas but
Peter over the past days the IDF has
also said it can't secure those
humanitarian corridors fully secure them
um how safe then are they for these
people wanting to
evacuate this is exactly very
representative of the situation as your
the former spok uh speaker interview on
on the show just said when these are
unilateral sides we have no partner in
Gaza there's no governing Authority
Hamas has no regard for is any life
Israeli or Palestinian and that's why
when we were uh initially engaging in
this humanitarian
evacuation corridors they initially in
the first two days they were firing at
these corridors so but what we did see
yesterday that most a huge amount of
people were evacuating which is a good
thing uh two days ago also we had a huge
amount so it's 50,000 880,000 yesterday
we we are seeing and I can say that I've
seen this morning reports of more
evacuation from the northern Gaza Strip
This is a good thing it's people taking
care of their lives we have been trying
to get them out of Palm's way now for
over three weeks um unfortunately Hamas
was putting barriers intimidating
physical barriers um to prevent people
from evacuating so that they could to
them and hide behind them but at the
same time some of these evacuees are
saying that they're being confronted by
tanks and by air
strikes no I'm not aware of any um I
would say distri disruption on the roots
that have been designated or from the
specific locations where we've said
we've conducted a pause um this is
uh I'm not aware of that at all and I
would say yes we are seeing and mass
huge amount of movement from people
going south which actually proves the
opposite so you're saying you can
guarantee these people's safety um as
far as the timing goes we heard there
from Netanyahu as well a few hours here
a few hours there for such masses of
people moving on foot how is it
physically possible that they get from
the north to the South and
safely and this is a balance of of the
war that is ongoing and it is a war that
we are determined to uh to win uh
because Hamas launched their attack
against us and we are determined to
remove them from control so um it's
important that the humanitarian Mission
and we see the humanitarian Mission as
part of our our broader mission in order
to achieve that goal but what is
important is to get people out of the
way safely uh indeed when there is
gunfights that are Hamas are conducting
or RPG attacks against our forces then
the forces are required to defend
themselves but I would say that you know
the mass evacuation yesterday of 880,000
people proved that people actually are
feeling safer now that Israel and the
IDF are mobilized there because it means
they can get away despite the fact that
Hamas is trying to prevent them Peter is
is there a change in mindset or a change
in uh hamus hamus control over these
people in the north that you can clarify
for
us so we've seen some people that have
been uh a few people not too many that
have been speaking out against Hamas
they feel a bit relieved that they can
actually say what Hamas was doing to
them I saw a video circulated yesterday
from Gaza of a lady talking about how
they had threatened to cut hope in her
belly if she leaves um so I would say
that is obviously people are feeling a
bit more relieved of course the
situation in Gaza is not an easy sit
situation uh it is a war zone there is
in specifically the north where we are
uncovering the extent of hamas's
embedment inside uh hospitals inside
schools inside uh residential areas and
how they have created this fortified
position out of all of the communities
all of the towns all of the villages in
Northern Gaza to serve their terrorist
activities we are seeking them out we
are destroying them stage by stage I
would say we're not in a rush to do it
we're doing it systematically in a way
that maximizes our Force protection in
order to make sure that we don't have
too many side and that is why we're
moving forward you know there are 239
Israelis still being held this morning
in in hamas's hands we are working to
bring them home and so many civilians
who are allo being caught up in this uh
from both sides uh IDF spokesperson
Peter larner there thank you very much
for joining us again here on
DW and let's talk more about the
humanitarian situation with Hisham
Mahana spokesperson for the
international Committee of the Red Cross
in Gaza you're in Rua I believe how
severe is the situation uh at hospitals
in the
South um first of all thank you for
having me and the answer to your
question is that it's
unprecedentedly shocking the situation
in D at all levels as we speak we are
receiving news that there are hospitals
in in the northern part of Gaza City
that are subject to attacks uh and
violence which resulted into the injury
of medical personnel um
and deration in facilities and the
ambulances some of these hospitals are
pediatric hospitals um and many of these
hospitals do not only treat um a large
number of of of casualties of all
different kinds but also it inhabits
tens of thousands of internally
displayed families who um ran to these
Hospital as sanctuaries and um you know
hospitals and Medical Teams enjoy
special protection under the
international Unitarian law and these
reports about these these these
incidents um imply that there is a
disrespect for these principles and um
it goes against what the IHL say um we
were as icrc on our way a few days ago
to reach alot Hospital which is run by
the palese recr society and that was the
first time that tried to reach to theas
city after October 13th uh we were um
homey of four trucks and two IC vehicles
and while we were trying to reach to
upot hospital which is the southern part
of Gaza City uh um we uh were under Fire
and we had
to immediately Evacuate the area U and
two trucks uh to stay damages and one of
our drivers was injured we had to go to
the Sher Hospital which is the largest
repal hospital in the Gaza Strip and
have itss over 50,000 displayed families
we delivered the aid and we reported a
number of ambulances filled with injur
injured people to the r Crossing and on
the way we have witnessed thousands of
civilians who were trying to get from
the north south Gaza walking
on okay can I just clarify from you from
whom you were under attack um who was
actually opening fire on
you we we could not verify this so far
but we were clearly visible in that
location and um and both parties were
aware about our homeo and what would be
the reason is is there any have you seen
any evidence of Hamas using these uh
convoys to hide or transport weapons or
hide
themselves
we have not been subjected to this
before and it was clear about the
perpetrator what I am I can confirm is
that we were clearly visible in the
location it was nearly only the icrc
Convoy moving in that area and clearly
all the roads leading to the hospital
were completely damaged which was which
was for us to find a way through to get
to the hospital um but uh it's a it's a
very very challenging situation that
humanitarian situations now have to
worry for the safety of their own teams
on grounds uh while they are um trying
to get life-saving Aid to the hundreds
of thousands of people in Gaza who are
an entire need for either in the
hospitals or in the shelters or even for
the families who are still staying uh in
Wonder without any roof on their over
their heads and without the basic access
to essential services to like water food
and drinking water you know like people
who were walking um on their feet trying
to uh to reach to the southern part of
gala where asking for for some water to
drink i i s myself uh children even
newborns carried by their own mothers uh
trying to cross and get to safety and
they were asking are we goingon to live
are we going to die do we are there
still faing the shelters for us is there
enough food and we could not answer
these questions
unfortunately um as we speak there's an
ongoing nonstop deterioration the
humanitarian situation uh in Gaza Strip
and um this should uh not be acceptable
to tolerated anymore any further because
it will definitely result into the loss
of Civilian lives destruction of
infrastructure and more hampered you
know environment for for Medical Teams
and Personnel to to provide life-saving
services insights there from hisam
Mahana from the icrc thank you very much
for joining us there from
Gaza thank you and let's try Crossing
now to ad cop it's a journalist in
Jerusalem ADI there's Fierce fighting
around this Hospital tell us more about
what you're
hearing well for starters I think it
shouldn't surprise anyone that the shifa
hospital became one of the targets of
the Israeli Defense Forces we've seen
Israeli Defense Forces spokesman Daniel
hagari since the beginning of the war
declaring again and again that the IDF
has concrete information about not just
a couple dozens but hundreds of Hamas
and Jihad militants using the hospital
as a shelter for military forces besides
that we've seen several intelligence
reports about the headquarters of Hamas
and the control of Hamas sophisticated
tunnel system being located under the
shifa hospital this is probably the
reason that we've seen Israeli forces
trying to convince people to evacuate
from the hospital since the beginning of
the war and we are expecting to see more
and more extensive attacks near the
shifa hospital again the reason for that
being that Kamas is using the hospital
as its shelter for its own headquarters
this has been the focus of the war since
the beginning and it's going to become a
much stronger area of battles as the war
keeps on going this is also one of the
main reasons that Israel has demanded
the complete evacuation of people from
the shifa hospital and from other
hospitals in the Gaza Strip as well and
this is the one of the reasons that
humanitarian corridors are being opened
from the northern part of the Gaza Strip
where these hospitals are located
towards the south of the Gaza Strip
which is considered to be more of a safe
Zone AI let's get back to the hospital
I've seen some of the evidence that uh
the Israeli Defense Forces uh have been
releasing uh tell me how concrete is
that evidence that Hamas is using places
like these hospitals as command
centers well unfortunately these
evidence seem very concrete I myself
went to my sources and confirmed with
them that this information is true and
to be honest I heard a lot more off the
Record about the cynical use Hamas and
other Terror organizations in the Gaza
Strip are using medical infrastructure
in the Gaza Strip This by the way goes
Way Beyond just the hospitals which on
its own is a crime against International
humanitarian law we're talking about
using infrastructures such as ambulances
to commute Hamas militants and weapons
around the Gaza Strip something that
again is very contradictory to
International humanitarian law we have
to say the the consistency of this
evidence and how concrete it is probably
takes away the legitimacy and the
immunity that hospitals are supposed to
have under International humanitarian
law because Geneva Convention explicitly
mentions that once these facilities are
used as militant bases and as places of
combat as bases for the headquarters uh
for Terror organizations they lose their
legitimacy and their immunity in the war
and let's pick up on the other point you
made there these humanitarian corridors
that have been offered by Israel but
can't be secured in some cases and
Israel also warning that Hamas has been
opening fire on uh people trying to flee
the North to the
South yes and it's not just Israel that
has been reporting that I myself have
seen several different Palestinian
reports and videos published by
Palestinians in the Gaza Strip admitting
that they have been trying and
attempting to evacuate to the South and
Hamas militants have been shooting not
above their heads but to their feet and
to their bodies killing many
Palestinians who are trying to evacuate
to the southern part of the Gaza Strip
this is happening because Hamas realizes
that the less civilians are around its
own militants these militants are less
protected Hamas is using these civilians
as human Shields and the more people who
evacuate to the southern part of the
Gaza Strip Israel will have more
legitimacy to attack Hamas and Jihad
Targets in the northern part of the Gaza
Strip which again is becoming the main
Battleground in the Gaza Strip okay
great to get your insights out a couple
of it Jerusalem journalist joining us
here on DW thank
you